---
title: DOAG 2017 - Day One
subtitle: The first day on DOAG 2017 in Nürnberg
tags: [DOAG_2017, APEX]
lang: en
---

First day on a conference is most of the time much fun. You see people that you've seen not a long time. That's interesting and time flies by.

But the speaches on day one are also more interesting. All is new.

Let's start with Patrick Wolf and an overview for APEX 5.2.

### APEX 5.2

- Spotlight search - search via keys (Space+`) - search for application and pages like standard search, but in addition type "sql co", the system shows you all relevant/important points - for instance "sql commands", choose that and jump directly to this feature. Three mouse clicks saved. Second example "lis" - jump to "Shared Components - List of Values"
- Colored icons in pagedesigner - items and regions have colored icons to determine item or region type
- Marking on the item which has changed - and is not yet saved
- On Objects with condition "Never", the name is crossed out
- It is possible to make the search in property sticky - click on another item and search stays
- If you go to a property from select list - the other properties are collapsed
- Switch between "Show common" and "Show all" properties is removed
- Legacy component common view removed - tab "Component View" stays
- If an JavaScript error appears - a red box appear in developer toolbar - only info - no further details
- New menu point in deve toolbar which shows the page timing
- New Jet chart types. Pyramide, Gantt and some statistical thing
- New possibility for remote sql - rest enabled sql - select on a remote database - works only when remote database has an ords in front. Original from Carsten: It's like a Web-Listener! - reports can have this a source.
- Websources - Possibility to include easily a restful service webservice - reports can have this as a source

### General

- 5.1.4 is comming in December
- Info and Documentation on your finger tips - 
https://apex.oracle.com/shortcuts - e.g. https://apex.oracle.com/doc51
- Did you know - you can arrange your tabs in page designer in APEX - even in 5.1 - layout drag&drop
- apex-install api in plsql
- notepad++ - graphical view on right side
- automatic creation of stammdaten pages - take pagescript and with templateengine change values - select all columns from table
- node.js creates screenshotes of every page and image diff between images
- quick.sql in package application
- foex tastenkürzel chrome
- liquibase - datenbankschema - continious delivery - one click to rule them all
- autokey keepass
- bitbucket integrierter docket container
